Phusers Github URL: [github.com/thephuse](https://github.com/thephuse)

---

We use Git to version source our code. Our preferred method of storing these version control repositories is BitBucket, but we also use GitHub for open source projects.

## Getting Started

We use both **[GitHub](https://github.com/thephuse)** and **[BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/thephuseteam)** to store Git repositories.

You can sign up for your own GitHub account (chances are you already have one, if you're a developer!), and you'll be added to our [GitHub Organization](https://github.com/thephuse) during your onboarding process. We use GitHub for client projects only upon request.

For everything else, including archived projects, we use BitBucket. You'll be invited to create an account using your @phuse.ca email during your onboarding process.

## Using Git

When working with clients who have their own Git repositories for projects, discussing their procedures is a priority. While you should be able to learn a great deal about their workflow from a conversation, be sure to look through their repositories as well to see first hand how they work.

## Rules and Regulations

- Commit often
- Indent using spaces, not tabs
- If you're working with another developer, use feature branches
- Do not commit compiled files if you're using a preprocessor (unless there's absolutely positively no way around it)
- Check out Unix-style line endings, commit Unix-style line endings

Beyond those basic principles, we have a few other guidelines:

### Naming Conventions

Repositories should use easy-to-recognize names that we can match to projects in Trello. Don't use spaces in repository or branch names, use hyphens, i.e. client-name-project-name.

### Indentation

Indendation should always use spaces, never tabs. Please check your editor's settings to ensure that tab stops are rendered out as spaces in your code. Preprocessors often read tabs and spaces differently, so using spaces means fewer merge issues.

### Branches

When working with more than one developer, the standard workflow looks like this: 

- Make a `feature` branch
- Commit to `feature` branch
- Push to `feature` branch
- Merge back into `master`
- Push to `master`

When working on applications, commits should happen first in `feature` branches that are then merged into `develop`. `master` should never be ahead of `develop` as `master` should always be production ready.

The only exception to this workflow that allows you to work without a new feature branch is with small stylistic updates. Stylistic updates rarely warrant the creation of a new feature branch because the changes have been discussed and can be executed very simply.

In the case of a static site, simple changes can be committed directly to the `master` branch. In the case of a web application, simple changes can be committed to the `develop` branch but never to the `master` branch.

### Commits

It’s very easy to accidentally include irrelevant changes in a commit, so always check `git status` before creating a commit.

Commit messages should include a description of the changes written in the present tense.

Unless otherwise stated, include the Trello card URL that corresponds with your commit.

A good commit message looks like this:

> Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary

> More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72 characters or so. In some contexts, the first line is treated as the subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body. The blank line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the two together.

> Write your commit message in the present tense: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug." This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

> Further paragraphs come after blank lines.
> - Bullet points are okay, too
> - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here
> - Use a hanging indent

### Comments

The entire purpose of Git is version control. Every line you’ve ever committed is saved for you. With that in mind, never comment out a block of code unless it’s a demonstration of how a backend developer will implement a new feature with the styles you’ve constructed.

On WordPress projects, track only one theme, and (if needed) the plugins folder. Your .gitignore file should look something like this:

> [Dev team to provide gist or code block]

## Archiving Process

What do you do with a repo when the project is over? [Read about the Archiving Process here](/Our_Process/Archiving_Process) to read more.

---

Next we talk about time tracking with [Harvest&#8594;](/Tools_&_Apps/Harvest).